[Update 8] Add intersection type related changes to the release note (#7606)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2201.8.0/RELEASE_NOTE.md

## Backward-incompatible changes

> - A bug that allowed assigning `anydata` value to a `readonly` `anydata` variable has been fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A bug that allowed assigning an `anydata` value to a `readonly`, `anydata` variable has been fixed.
```

    ```ballerina
    public function main() {
        anydata a = [];
        anydata & readonly b = a; // Compilation error now.
    }
    ```
  

> - A bug that allowed including a `readonly` `service` object inside a non-`service` `readonly` class has been fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A bug that allowed including a `readonly`, `service` object inside a `non-service`, `readonly` class has been fixed.
```

    ```ballerina
    public type A readonly & service object {
        isolated remote function execute() returns int;
    };
  
    readonly client class B {
        *A;
  
        isolated remote function execute() returns int {
            return 2;
        }
    }
    ```
  
- Modified the behavior of the [runtime Java APIs to support the intersection type](/downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2201.8.0#intersection-type-support-in-runtime-java-apis).

> - Modified the behavior of the Semantic API `typeDescriptor()` methods to return the intersection type symbol instead of the effective type(corresponding non-intersection type computed to represent the same value space) symbol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Modified the behavior of the Semantic API `typeDescriptor()` methods to return the intersection type symbol instead of the effective type symbol (a corresponding non-intersection type is computed to represent the same value space).
```

    ```ballerina
    // `TypeSymbol` of `A` will now be an `IntersectionTypeSymbol` instead of `StringTypeSymbol`.

>     type A string & readonly;

Reviewer 2: Shall we use a better (not an inherently immutable type) example? e.g., array

## Backward-incompatible changes

- A bug that allowed assigning `anydata` value to a `readonly` `anydata` variable has been fixed.

    ```ballerina
    public function main() {
        anydata a = [];
        anydata & readonly b = a; // Compilation error now.
    }
    ```
  
- A bug that allowed including a `readonly` `service` object inside a non-`service` `readonly` class has been fixed.

    ```ballerina
    public type A readonly & service object {
        isolated remote function execute() returns int;
    };
  
    readonly client class B {
        *A;
  
        isolated remote function execute() returns int {
            return 2;
        }
    }
    ```
  
- Modified the behavior of the [runtime Java APIs to support the intersection type](/downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2201.8.0#intersection-type-support-in-runtime-java-apis).

> - `TypeSymbol` of an intersection type will now return an `IntersectionTypeSymbol`.

Reviewer 3: This should be included under Semantic API right?

Author: We mention Backward-incompatible changes from all the components here right?

> - `TypeSymbol` of an intersection type will now return an `IntersectionTypeSymbol`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `typeDescriptor()` of symbols of intersection-type now returns the type-symbol as of `IntersectionTypeSymbol` instead of its effective-type
```

## Backward-incompatible changes

- A bug that allowed assigning `anydata` value to a `readonly` `anydata` variable has been fixed.

    ```ballerina
    public function main() {
        anydata a = [];
        anydata & readonly b = a; // Compilation error now.
    }
    ```
  
- A bug that allowed including a `readonly` `service` object inside a non-`service` `readonly` class has been fixed.

    ```ballerina
    public type A readonly & service object {
        isolated remote function execute() returns int;
    };
  
    readonly client class B {
        *A;
  
        isolated remote function execute() returns int {
            return 2;
        }
    }
    ```
  
- Modified the behavior of the [runtime Java APIs to support the intersection type](/downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2201.8.0#intersection-type-support-in-runtime-java-apis).

> 

Reviewer 4: ``` suggestion
```

### New features

#### New Runtime Java APIs

> - Introduced the `getImpliedType()` API in the `io.ballerina.runtime.api.utils.TypeUtils` class to retrieve the referred type if a given type is a type-reference type or to retrieve the effective type if the given type is an intersection type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Introduced the `getImpliedType()` API in the `io.ballerina.runtime.api.utils.TypeUtils` class to retrieve the referred type if a given type is a type-reference type, or to retrieve the effective type if the given type is an intersection type.
```

Reviewer 2: Is this phrased correctly? If it is a type reference type where the referred type is an intersection type, don't we get the effective type? From this, it reads like the intersection type is returned.

    ```java
    Type getImpliedType(Type type)

>     ```

Reviewer 2: Doesn't add value?

Author: Removed

### Improvements

#### Intersection type support in runtime Java APIs

> The following runtime APIs are now modified to return an intersection type rather than returning the effective type of the intersection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following runtime APIs are now modified to return an intersection type rather than returning the effective type of the intersection.
```
Check why the word `return` is marked in red in this preview above.

Author: Seems a bug in git 😄

| `getElementType`                                                          | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BArray`           |
| `getConstraintType`                                                       | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BStream`          |
| `getCompletionType`                                                       | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BStream`          |
| `getKeyType`                                                              | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BTable`           |
| `getDescribingType`                                                       | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BTypedesc`        |
| `getType`                                                                 | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BValue`           |
| `getType`                                                                 | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.utils.TypeUtils`         |

For example, if an intersection type is defined in the following way,

```ballerina
type ReadonlyIntArray readonly & int[];

ReadonlyIntArray array = [1, 2, 3, 4];

> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```

````

### New features

#### New Runtime Java APIs

> - Introduced the `getImpliedType()` API in the `io.ballerina.runtime.api.utils.TypeUtils` class to retrieve the referred type if a given type is a type reference type or retrieve the effective type if the given type is an intersection type.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Introduced the `getImpliedType()` API in the `io.ballerina.runtime.api.utils.TypeUtils` class to retrieve the referred type if a given type is a type-reference type or to retrieve the effective type if the given type is an intersection type.
```

    ```java
    Type getImpliedType(Type type)
    ```

### Improvements

#### Intersection type support in runtime Java APIs

> The following runtime APIs are now modified to return the intersection type rather than returning the effective type of the intersection.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following runtime APIs are now modified to return an intersection type rather than returning the effective type of the intersection.
```
``` suggestion
The following runtime APIs are now modified to return the intersection type rather than returning the effective type of the intersection.
```

| **Runtime API**                                                          | **Java class**                                     |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| `getElementType`                                                         | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.types.ArrayType`         |
| `getDetailType`                                                          | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.types.ErrorType`         |
| `getFieldType`                                                           | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.types.Field`             |
| `getParameterTypes`                                                      | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.types.FunctionType`      |
| `getReturnType`                                                          | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.types.FunctionType`      |
| `getReturnParameterType`                                                 | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.types.FunctionType`      |
| `getRestType`                                                            | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.types.FunctionType`      |

> | `getParameters` (The `Parameter.type` field can be a intersection type.) | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.types.FunctionType`      |

Reviewer 4: ``` suggestion
| `getParameters` (The `Parameter.type` field can be an intersection type.) | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.types.FunctionType`      |
```

| `getCompletionType`                                                      | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BStream`          |
| `getKeyType`                                                             | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BTable`           |
| `getDescribingType`                                                      | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BTypedesc`        |
| `getType`                                                                | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.values.BValue`           |
| `getType`                                                                | `io.ballerina.runtime.api.utils.TypeUtils`         |

For example, if the type-reference types are defined in the following way,

```ballerina
type ReadonlyIntArray readonly & int[];

ReadonlyIntArray array = [1, 2, 3, 4];
```
the results of the runtime API calls will be as follows.

| **Runtime API call**                                     | **Result**                                                      |
|----------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `array.getType()`                                        | This will return an `IntersectionType` insted of `ArrayType`.   |
> | `getDescribingType()` on `ReadonlyIntArray` type         | This will return an `IntersectionType` insted of `ArrayType`.   |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| `array.getType()`                                        | This will return an `IntersectionType` instead of `ArrayType`.   |
| `getDescribingType()` on `ReadonlyIntArray` type         | This will return an `IntersectionType` instead of `ArrayType`.   |
```

| `getImpliedType()` on received `IntersectionType` type   | This will return an `ArrayType`.                                |      

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

    3d|4f|6 b = 4; // Compilation error now, `4` is considered to be `int`.
    ```

> - A bug where an `anydata` value could be assigned to contexts requiring an `anydata & readonly` value has been fixed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A bug that allowed an `anydata` value to be used in contexts expecting an `anydata & readonly` value has been fixed.
```

    ```ballerina
    public function main() {
        anydata a = [];
        anydata & readonly b = a; // Compilation error now.
    }
    ```
  

> - A bug that allowed including a `readonly` `service` object inside a `readonly` non-`service` class has been fixed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A bug that allowed using object type inclusion with a `readonly` `service` object in a `readonly` non-`service` class has been fixed.
```

    ```ballerina
    public type A readonly & service object {
        isolated remote function execute() returns int;
    };
  
    readonly client class B {
        *A; // Compilation error now.
  
        isolated remote function execute() returns int {
            return 2;
        }
    }
    ```

> - A bug where the runtime error messages were including the flattened representation of the union types instead of the name used in the type definition has been fixed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A bug which caused the runtime error messages to include the flattened representation of a union type instead of the name used in the type definition has been fixed.
```

  
    ```ballerina
    type AC map<int>|string;
    
    public function main() returns error? {
        map<anydata> x = {a: "Ballerina"};
        AC|boolean _ = check x.cloneWithType();
    }
    ```

>     This now fails with ```"'map<anydata>' value cannot be converted to '(AC|boolean)'"``` instead of ```"'map<anydata>' value cannot be converted to '(map<int>|string|boolean)'"```.

Reviewer 2: ` instead of ```?

- Modified the behavior of the [runtime Java APIs to support the intersection type](/downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2201.8.0#intersection-type-support-in-runtime-java-apis).

> - Modified the behavior of the Semantic API `typeDescriptor()` methods to return the intersection type symbol instead of the effective type symbol (i.e., the symbol of the corresponding non-intersection type that is computed to represent the same value space).

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't these be in the form of "The behaviour of ... has been modified ..." for consistency? 

@praneesha

Reviewer: We can have that format only for bugs as a special case as the meaning gets changed in that instance. This sounds fine to be consistent with the other sections.

        }
    }
    ```

> - A bug where the runtime error messages were including the member types of a union type instead of the original union type name has been fixed.

Reviewer 2: How about something like "flattened representation of types instead of the name used in the type definition"?

Author: Isn't `flattened representation` an internal concept? We may have to explain what do we mean by `flattened representation` if we are using that

Reviewer 2: Self-explanatory IMO. Or 

A bug that resulted in runtime error messages including the string representation of the member types of a union instead of the name used in the type definition has been fixed.

Author: Will go with the fist one 😃

  
  ```ballerina

>     type AC map<int>|string;

Reviewer 2: Formatting is off?

    
    public function main() returns error? {
        map<anydata> x = {a: "Ballerina"};
        AC|boolean _ = check x.cloneWithType();
    }
  ```

  The above program now fail with the following runtime error
  
  ```
  error: {ballerina/lang.value}ConversionError {"message":"'map<anydata>' value cannot be converted to '(AC|boolean)': 
                  {
                    map field 'a' should be of type 'int', found '"Ballerina"'
                  }"}
  ```
  
  Instead of the following. Note the original union type name `AC` is missing in the error message.
  
  ```
  error: "{ballerina/lang.value}ConversionError",message="'map<anydata>' value cannot be converted to '(map<int>|string|boolean)': 
                  {
                    map field 'a' should be of type 'int', found '"Ballerina"'
                  }"

>   ```

Reviewer 2: I would keep this simple and say 

```
This now fails with "'map<anydata>' value cannot be converted to '(AC|boolean)'" instead of "'map<anydata>' value cannot be converted to '(map<int>|string|boolean)'".
```

### New features

#### New Runtime Java APIs

> - Introduced the `Type getImpliedType(Type)` API in the `io.ballerina.runtime.api.utils.TypeUtils` class to recursively retrieve the referred type or the effective type of given type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Introduced the `Type getImpliedType(Type)` API in the `io.ballerina.runtime.api.utils.TypeUtils` class to retrieve the the implied type for a given type, obtained by recursively resolving type reference and/or intersection types.
```

Reviewer 2: Can't we add an example here?

Author: Added an example [ee848e2](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/7606/commits/ee848e2560da5b858aa68eae18bfbdbe3c252d67). I prefer the existing description replaced `or` with `and/or`

Reviewer 2: "referred" and "effective" are internal terms that may not be obvious to the user, unlike type reference and intersection types.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we can expect a user to read the entire release note.

Author: The thing is what do we mean by resolving intersection? It does not give us the meaning of `corresponding non-intersection type that is computed to represent the same value space`. One thing we can do is add `abbreviation` section to the release note or like reference section since we have used the term `effectiveType` in 3 places, but only the first occurrence contains the definition.

Reviewer 2: How about

```md
- Introduced the `Type getImpliedType(Type)` API in the `io.ballerina.runtime.api.utils.TypeUtils` class to retrieve the implied type for a given type, obtained by recursively resolving type reference types (to get referred types) and/or intersection types (to get effective types).
```

### New features

#### New Runtime Java APIs

- Introduced the `Type getImpliedType(Type)` API in the `io.ballerina.runtime.api.utils.TypeUtils` class to recursively retrieve the referred type and/or the effective type of a given type.

```ballerina

> // `getImpliedType` on type A returns a `BArrayType`. This is achieved by first retrieving the referenced type of the type reference type, which will be an intersection type, and then retrieving the effective type of the intersection type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// `getImpliedType` on type A returns a `BArrayType`. This is achieved by first retrieving the referred type of the type reference type, which will be an intersection type, and then retrieving the effective type of the intersection type.
```

type A int[] & readonly;

> ```

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this be indented?
